리스트

range 함수
인자로 전달되는 값에 따라서 숫자로 이루어진 리스트를 반환하게 된다.
range(3) # [0, 1, 2]
len 함수

up to but not including

split 함수

문자열은 안되지만 리스트는 내용을 바꿀 수 있다.

Exercise 8.1: Write a function called chop that takes a list and modifies
it, removing the first and last elements, and returns None. Then write
a function called middle that takes a list and returns a new list that
contains all but the first and last elements.

Exercise 8.2: Figure out which line of the above program is still not
properly guarded. See if you can construct a text file which causes the
program to fail and then modify the program so that the line is properly
guarded and test it to make sure it handles your new text file.

Exercise 8.3: Rewrite the guardian code in the above example without
two if statements. Instead, use a compound logical expression using
the or logical operator with a single if statement.

Exercise 8.4: Find all unique words in a file
To get started, download a copy of the file www.py4e.com/code3/romeo.txt.
Create a list of unique words, which will contain the final result. Write
a program to open the file romeo.txt and read it line by line. For each
line, split the line into a list of words using the split function. For
each word, check to see if the word is already in the list of unique
words. If the word is not in the list of unique words, add it to the list.
When the program completes, sort and print the list of unique words
in alphabetical order.

Exercise 8.5: Minimalist Email Client.
MBOX (mail box) is a popular file format to store and share a collection
of emails. This was used by early email servers and desktop apps.
Without getting into too many details, MBOX is a text file, which
stores emails consecutively. Emails are separated by a special line which
starts with From (notice the space). Importantly, lines starting with
From: (notice the colon) describes the email itself and does not act as
a separator. Imagine you wrote a minimalist email app, that lists the
email of the senders in the user’s Inbox and counts the number of emails.
Write a program to read through the mail box data and when you find
line that starts with “From”, you will split the line into words using the
split function. We are interested in who sent the message, which is the
second word on the From line.
From stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za Sat Jan 5 09:14:16 2008
You will parse the From line and print out the second word for each
From line, then you will also count the number of From (not From:)
lines and print out a count at the end. This is a good sample output
with a few lines removed:
python fromcount.py
Enter a file name: mbox-short.txt
stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za
louis@media.berkeley.edu
zqian@umich.edu
[...some output removed...]
ray@media.berkeley.edu
cwen@iupui.edu
cwen@iupui.edu
cwen@iupui.edu
There were 27 lines in the file with From as the first word

Exercise 8.6: Rewrite the program that prompts the user for a list of
numbers and prints out the maximum and minimum of the numbers at
the end when the user enters “done”. Write the program to store the
numbers the user enters in a list and use the max() and min() functions to
compute the maximum and minimum numbers after the loop completes.
